[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Everyone, what's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
Welcome back to season
two of "Polycast."
In today's episode,
we're going to be looking
at the auto-binding
template element.
It's one of those tags that
not a lot of people know about,
but it's super useful for
wiring up your application.
So let's check it out.
So if you've worked with
web components for a bit,
you've probably already seen
the new template element.
The template element has a
few really awesome features.
First and foremost, any
content that you place inside
of a template is going
to be completely inert,
meaning this H1 that we
have right here is not
going to display on the
page until we actually
grab the guts of this
template and stamp it out.
Also, any elements
that you have which
require external resources,
like an image tag,
for instance, are not going
to make any HTTP requests.
Also, if you have script
inside of your template,
it's not going to
execute, not until it's
stamped out to the page.
Some really handy
features there.
Now normally, if you want
actually display that content
as I said, you're going to
have use some JavaScript to get
all the guts onto the page.
But if you're using
Polymer, you can actually
add an attribute
to your template.
You can say that your
template is auto-binding.
And what that's
going to do is it's
going to turn your
template into what's
known as a type
extension custom element.
Basically, what's
happening is Polymer
has already defined the
definition for this element.
It actually ships with
the Polymer library.
So when you boot up
your application,
it's there and ready to use.
Now, your auto-binding
template is
going to immediately
take all of its content
and stamp it out the page.
And what's more,
it actually allows
you to use data bindings
with this content.
So let me show you an
example of how you do that.
Here, we've got a
template element,
and inside, I've just
placed an H1 tag.
And because I have this,
is auto-binding attribute,
I know that I can leverage
the power of data binding.
So the first thing
I'm going to do
is replace the content of
that H1 with curly braces
and define a scope variable.
In this case, I'm going to
call the variable message.
Elsewhere in my
JavaScript, I can
select the template element
using querySelector,
and then provide a value
for that message variable.
This value is then going to
be piped right back to my H1
and show up as the text
content on my page.
All right, I know this is
a really simple example,
so let's switch over
to our code editor,
and we can actually start
wiring up some Polymer elements.
So here, I have a really
basic application structure
using core-drawer-panel
and some of the elements
that we've covered
in previous episodes.
And I've got links to those
previous episodes down
in the show notes if
you'd missed them.
Now if I pop open the
browser to check out
the structure of this page, you
can see that it's pretty plain.
We've got a core menu with a few
buttons that we can click on,
and we've also got the title
of our application up there.
Now right now, nothing's
really happening.
So the first thing that I can
do is change the title of my app
using a data binding to make
it a little more interesting.
Back in my editor, I'm
going to create a template
and give it an
auto-binding attribute.
I'm also going to
give it an ID, so I
can reference it later
using JavaScript.
And then I can just go and
cut and paste all the content
for my application and drop
it inside of this template.
Next, I'm going to go down
to where it says My App
and replace the content
with a binding, which
I'm going to call heading.
Then I'm going open
up my app.js file,
and I'm going to querySelector
for my template using
the ID that we set earlier.
I'm also going to reference
to my auto-binding template.
I can just provide a value
for that heading variable.
In this case, I'm going to make
it say, "Hello Polycasters."
Now, when I refresh
the page in my browser,
you'll see that the
title of the application
has been updated to say,
"Hello Polycasters."
Now, that's kind of
cool, but the menu
itself still doesn't really do
anything in our application,
so let's change that next.
Back in my editor, I'm going to
set a selected value of zero.
And this is, again,
just another scope
variable that I'm creating.
In my index file,
I'll find my core menu
and change its hard coded
selected value, which
right now is zero, to that
scope variable called selected.
And I'm also going to go down
to the container for my page
where, right now, it just has
some sort of generic filler
content that says site content.
I'll update that
with some text, which
is going to actually
print out the page
that we're looking at using
that selected scope variable.
Switching back to the
browser, if I refresh the page
and start clicking on the
different elements in my menu,
you'll see that the
number is updating
to let me know which
page is selected.
Now here is a little
ProTip for you.
As you're working with
the auto-binding template,
if you need to access any of
its contents using JavaScript,
you're going to want to listen
for its template-bound event.
And the reason is because the
auto-binding template stamps
out all of its content
asynchronously.
So to demonstrate
how to do this,
I'm just going to log the
core menu element itself
to my console.
The way to do that is to
first add an event listener
to my template.
And I'm going to be listening
for that template-bound event,
so I know when all the content
has been stamped to the page.
Then, in the callback
function, I'm
just going to grab a
reference to the core menu,
because now I know that it is
in the document and available.
And then I'm just going to
log it out to the console.
And I'm back in Chrome.
I refresh the page and
open up the dev tools.
And you can see down
here at the bottom,
that core menu gets
logged out immediately,
and it highlights the core
menu element on the page.
So now you're ready
to go add data
binding to your own application.
In the next episode,
I'm going to combine
the auto-binding template with
an element called core pages,
so we can actually
dynamically swap around
the content in our application.
Definitely stay tuned for that.
As always, thank you
so much watching,
and I will see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]